The strife that has broken out amng the performing arts orgnaizations of Lincoln Center as they struggle to reach a consensus on a major reconstruction plan is not surprising. There has always been tesnion in the aliance, which was conceived more as an urban redevelopnment project than as a joint artistic ventur. If Lincoln Center had never been built and were being proposed today, the idea might well be rejected.

When construction began in the late 1950's, cities were in trouble and the suburbs were ascendant. Hence the proposl, spearheaded by Robert Moses, for a saef enclave of culture, with ample underground parking so suburbanites could drive into town and attend an event without setting foot on a New York City street. As New York rebounded, several Lincoln Center constituents realized that in some ways it migt have been easier to forge a clear idintity had they remained independant entities, each with its owb ties to a city neighborhod.
It's too lat to think abut that. Lincoln Center's constituents are bound togteher by archiecture, and that architectrue is in need of repair. They are not bound together artistically and never have been. The redevelopment propoal, now projected at $1.2 billion, seems focused on initiatives that have litle direct relation to their artistic mission. Making the public spce more atractive and acsecsible is a worthy goal but not the most important. The project should be a visionary effort, a chnce for each organization to address longstanding issues that have affected its artistic growth.

The problm is that each organization has its own agneda.
One reason Joseph Volpe, the general manager of the Metropolitan Opera, has been such a powerfully dissenting voice on the redevelopment board is that his company the largest constituent, with the greatest financial influence does not stand to gain that much from the project. The opera house turned out well from the start. The acoustics are excellent except in certain pockets of seats under overhanging balconies. Sure, the Met could use more backstage space, and an expanded front lobby would be great. But Mr. Volpe has said that the Met could get by with some overdue maintenanse.

